h2. clj-backtrace

clj-backtrace is a library for creating more readable backtraces in Clojure programs.

To install, build using <code>ant</code> and include the resulting <code>clj-backtrace.jar</code> in your classpath.

One use for clj-backtrace is it to print stack traces from the REPL:

<pre><code>
=> (use 'clj-backtrace.repl)
=> ("foo")
java.lang.ClassCastException: java.lang.String
user=> (pst)  ;instead of (.printStackTrace *e) 
java.lang.ClassCastException: java.lang.String
         Compiler.java:4163 clojure.lang.Compiler.eval
              core.clj:1497 clojure.core/eval
               main.clj:148 clojure.main/repl[fn]
               main.clj:145 clojure.main/repl
            RestFn.java:876 clojure.lang.RestFn.invoke
            repl_ln.clj:233 clojure.contrib.repl-ln/repl
            RestFn.java:402 clojure.lang.RestFn.invoke
                user.clj:71 user/eval
         Compiler.java:4152 clojure.lang.Compiler.eval
         Compiler.java:4480 clojure.lang.Compiler.load
                RT.java:327 clojure.lang.RT.loadResourceScript
                RT.java:312 clojure.lang.RT.loadResourceScript
                RT.java:308 clojure.lang.RT.maybeLoadResourceScript
                RT.java:446 clojure.lang.RT.doInit
                RT.java:286 clojure.lang.RT.<clinit>
          Namespace.java:31 clojure.lang.Namespace.<init>
         Namespace.java:116 clojure.lang.Namespace.findOrCreate
               main.java:21 clojure.main.<clinit>
           (Unknown Source) java.lang.Class.forName0
             Class.java:164 java.lang.Class.forName
      ConsoleRunner.java:69 jline.ConsoleRunner.main
Caused by: java.lang.String
                   repl-1:1 user/eval
         Compiler.java:4152 clojure.lang.Compiler.eval
</code></pre>

In stack traces printed by <code>pst</code>:
* Java methods are described with the usual <code>name.space.ClassName.methodName</code> convention and Clojure functions with their own <code>name.space/function-name</code> convention.
* Anonymous clojure functions are denoted by adding an <code>[fn]</code> to their enclosing, named function.
* "Caused by" cascades are shown as in regular java stack traces.
* Elements are vertically aligned for better readability.
* Printing is directed to <code>*out*</code>.

If you want to direct the printing to somewhere other than stdout, either dynamically rebind <code>*out*</code> to the desired location or use <code>(pst-str e)</code> to capture the backtrace dump as a string.

The library also offers an API for programatically 'parsing' exceptions. This API is used internal for <code>pst</code> and can be used to e.g. improve development tools. Try for example:

<pre><code>
=> (use '(clj-backtrace core repl))
=> (try ("foo") 
     (catch Exception e 
       (print-trace-elems (take 5 (:trace-elems (parse-exception e))))))
</code></pre>

---

Copyright 2008 Mark McGranaghan and released under an MIT license.
